Welcome to animating with physics so animating physics were one thing to remember is blender actually
allows you to annamay Almost everything.
Now moving of animation she usually thinking about just moving something.
But we can use this feature of blender to toggle whether we are in control of I.e. we were running an
animation moving something let's say or the physics engine itself is in charge of the mesh.
Now Blender's physics engine is great it will remember what has just happened in the animation.
So if it was travelling at a certain speed it will continue travelling that certain speed.
But then with physics applied to it and we're also going to have a quick peek at the graph Ed and that
will become apparent why we need to do that as soon as we hop on over in a blender.
Okay so we're over in blender and the first thing we need to do here is set the scene so I'm going to
add a plane.
So we've got a ground and scale that up by now them a large number.
So well actually that's very large.
Never mind that will do.
And I'm going to immediately apply a rigid body physics to the ground and make it passive.
I'm going to lift the cube out to the ground he says having grap the wrong thing.
There we go.
Let's move it on the z axis so GZ one lift it up and I'm going to duplicate that so there's the extra
cube and I'm going to move that new one.
G Why.
I don't know three.
There we go.
So they are separate.
So we've got two cubes here and I'm going to add a rigid body to both of them.
So we're ready to go.
Now the the thing to bear in mind here is this little check box when we're dealing with an active rigid
body there's a little tick box that tells the blender basically whether or not it's animated or not.
And that's the thing that we can toggle with a key frame.
So first of all let's let's set up a key frame for both of these.
In the starting location now there is a couple of ways of doing this and I'm going to open up the properties
panel and using the Iki to insert a key frame.
I'm going to hover over the area.
I want to key in and we will see a yellow bar appear here.
So let's go ahead and do that so I've got this cube here selected.
I'm going to press I and we can see a little yellow bar.
So if I move that has appeared which means that it has remembered exactly where it is I'm going to do
the same to this cube here I'm going to hover over its location and press I.
Excellent.
So that's a great start.
We've keyed in the beginning position.
Now we need to move one of them by a certain amount of code to move them both to the same place.
First of all so I'm going to go to the side view in orthographic sides of the relined.
There we go.
Move them positive x and I'm going to turn snapping on so we can align them perfectly and then move
it along here and then up to about here.
He says having not locked in fully and I'm going to do the same to the other one here.
Okay.
Now I did fiddle about.
Fortunately I've not lost anything which is good.
I really should place the frame first because if you go over the top.
In fact I'm going to do it.
If you go over the top of a Already key framed it moves along some and the set this at 30 frames.
And we've got our cube up here.
Fortunately it seems to have remembered that it had been moved which is good.
So we're going to set it at 30 and we can see the no frame we're on both here in the 3D window and the
lower left and also down here as well on the timeline.
So I'm going to key in that one and are going to click again and key in the other one.
Okay so now both of them are keyed in and if we play the animation will see that it moves from one place
to the other.
No it doesn't.
So why doesn't it.
It's just behaving with physics at the moment because we have not said to animates it.
So now we've put a tick in the animated box.
We should find it moves from one place to another.
Our turns out here both the key frames are in the same position.
Okay so it didn't hold that.
Let's move that one and move this one.
Okay excellent.
Let's key in that.
And key in the other one hovering over and pressing eilerts to make sure it is working now.
Excellent.
So the one thing I want to do here is actually move one to the same place but in a lot shorter time
and then we can compare the two when we switch physics off.
So I'm going to go to where it is at 30.
But this time actually key in these figures earlier on say it's fifteens it's moved very quickly.
So when I go to frame 15.
I took notes of one of them there and this was five and six I believe six.
So this cube here is going to get to the end location a lot quicker than the other one and I'm going
to keep that in.
Now I need to remove what I've already keyed in.
So see we've got a she got a key frame applied here.
So that particular cue which would be a bit disastrous if we wanted the physics engine to take over.
But what we can do here is simply delete that particular one.
Now a couple of ways of doing that I'm going to switch over to the graph Ed in a second because one
of the problems if you look at half a cube are going to play the animation here see it move.
Notice that it's it's dampened at the end it's start slowing down.
And that is because of the graph Ed.
It's not linearly going between one place and another as she starts a little slower speeds up and then
slows back down again.
So I'm going to change this view this that's actually move this up so we can see more and more changes
view here to the graph ed.
So here we go.
We've got the cube that we've got selected.
And we can see that there's a slight S curve going through.
Now this is actually controlling how it's moving in the x and z z direction there.
And it's got no movement in the Y which is absolutely fine that is what's happening.
But here we have the actual points themselves.
And it's this this set over here the end ones that we don't want anymore.
So I'm going to right click on those.
The selection is just like it is normally.
And then hit the X and delete the key frames.
There we go.
That's that sorted.
The other thing I want to sort out whilst I'm in this graph editor and I'm going to play with anything
else but like a Bezier curve it has handles and we can change the type of handle and we can do that
by going to key as in the key frame itself and handle typing you can see the shortcut key.
Just like that Bezier curve is V.
And if I set it to a vector it will become straight it will tend to carry on rather than doing anything
else.
We can see it's actually changed the motion a little.
And going to go to the beginning one and also hit V.
Instead it is a vector.
In fact in this case because I want them all to be vectors and then a select everything hit v m vector.
There we go is moving along and select the other square and do exactly the same.
Some GLA select all and hit V and vector then they're just linearly moving between the two places.
Okay so now we've done that.
The next thing we need to do is make this toggle switch here where it says whether it's animated or
not because of we turn it off.
It behaves with the physics engine and was it's on.
It just follows whatever path we've had set for it.
So I'm going to go back to the timeline view.
A bit less cluttered and what we need to do here is go to the beginning frame and where it says animated.
I'm going to press I over the top of that and we can see it's gone yellow and will select the other
Q And press I so it's animated.
And now I just need to work out which cube is which some scanner play for the animation so this is the
one that reaches there first and it's the one we've got selected.
And so at frame 15 as it reaches there we can see it frame 15.
It literally stops at its final resting place.
But at that point we can actually turn off animation song and change it so that we've toggled animated
off and hit the Iki.
And what we should find now is when we play the animation it will remember its velocity an arc away.
Excellent.
Now this other one is going to is different place which is fair enough but those are going to the same
place but it's getting there at a different speed.
So we should see a difference between these two in terms of how high they go and how far they go when
they hit the ground.
So let's go ahead and it's at frame 30 I believe if I selected so I can see the little yellow blob brain
thring 30 that's fine.
And that toggle animated and press the key to keep that in.
Now when I make the animation itself just a little bit longer.
And let's see what happens when we play that.
So let's go to it and a.
And let the animation start it fresh rather than waiting it to go.
So this one's got a lot more initial velocity than this one so goes further even though they go to the
same point.
So it's remembering where it was before and we can make that even more extreme.
We can go back so this one that's going further go ensue.
The graph Ed again where we've had this before and I'm going to use border selects like we've done 3D
Ed and select those three they're using the geeky amulets you going to move it back.
So this is going to make it move a lot lot faster because it's going to get to that.
Oh I wasn't planning on it going that fast.
There you go it's flying away.
So.
Wow okay.
So let's maybe move that down to 10.
Which is still significantly faster than 15.
So that's drop it up a little.
And there we go.
So that just shows you though go into the same position but completely different times and they go a
lot further or can cango a lot further they're brilliant.
Okay so we've learned a little bit there.
And if these were to come into contact with any other bodies that have physics applied they're going
to interact with them which is really really useful because that's going to be a good bit of the challenge
for you.
Okay I'd like you to go and throw a primitive at the wall that we've created so annamay any primitive
you light towards the wall itself.
Switch the physics engine before impact and let the physics engine just do the rest and see what happens.
Now do remember to experiment and have fun.
I certainly have when I've been trying this out.
Don't be put off if you throw something at the wall it doesn't go through it.
Think why isn't it going through that wall.
What would what would make it go through the wall would one make it knock the wall over a bit better.
Does it need to be heavier.
Does it need to be moving faster.
These two things are very important.
I'm sure you'll figure it out.
But now is time to pause the video.
Have some fun and give it a go.
Okay guys welcome back.
Let's go through a primitive at the wall.
Okay so we've opened up a V wall here that we've been working on and I need a place something to go
and impact it's all going to go over here and add ourselves all lots of choices of primitives which
one shall I pick a cone see if it can force its way through the wall.
I'm going to rotate it.
I think 90 degrees on the x axis Yeah.
And I'm going to lift it up.
Ever since flying business off the ground is of five blending units Six okay.
That should be fine.
I'm just going to literally fire it straight.
Just going to flip around from one side to the other.
So it's going to impact slot slots there on the wall.
So I'm going to move it forward ever so slightly an up ever so slightly.
But let's key in its current position.
First of all so let's go to frame zero.
Let's go to the beginning of the animation frame one in this case and key in its current location.
Excellent.
Let's go ahead and move it all.
Let's go to frame 10 let's say and move it forward a couple of blender units and maybe up 1.
Excellent.
Let's keep that in and let's make sure that is running on a lesson the keys here or the the frame sorry
to 50 in total just so it can loop quickly there's our wall.
Let's play that and just make sure it's moving it is moving that's fine.
We still got that brick falling off.
Let's give it a rigid body then it's going to flock to the ground which is fine.
We're going to tell it is animated.
And it should move.
Excellent.
And we just need to tell it went to forget the animation now so let's go to the very beginning and say
hey blender.
This is animated so we've keyed that in and let's go to the end of the animation and key it.
But this time with it toggled off okay here's the moment of truth.
Let's fire that's at the wall.
Oh no.
What.
What's a flop.
Okay so this is relatively straightforward to fix because we just need to move the two closer together
until we get the desired results or the switch to the graph.
Ed I'm going to make all of those of vector like we've done before and I'm just going to use and could
select everything in using border so let's build a make this bigger so I can select things than with
select those nodes there and literally just shift them all back at once.
So I try that again I mis clicked on it.
There we go.
Okay so we got those go g and just move them back slightly.
I need a lock these to an axis it's the x axis here.
I'm going to make its five frames and play that and see what happens.
How Okay so it's going to have to be less Let's move them all let's just do one frame and see what happens.
I've gone too far back haven't I solist just undo that G x and go back to frame.
That's the right one.
Let's see if that works.
Okay so that's not actually working that's all doing the desired result so the other thing we can do
here is just get it to move a bit further.
In that tight time frame itself so this time let's go back to the time line itself will stop it from
running Let's go to that place where we keyed in the movement which is frame 10 but instead of it having
this position let's literally just shift it further forward and key in that new position.
Now was there.
Wish the would be some sort of active thing to say that you've keep that in or might come up in the
console that is possible in all of this junk up here.
But I don't think it is.
By the looks of it.
So no not there.
Let's see if we can run this animation.
Haha and it hits the wall and does almost nothing.
How about that.
So why is it doing almost nothing.
Well it weighs a kilo and the what the wall weighs a lot lot more.
So let's make it heavier let's make it 50 kg and see what happens then.
Excellent.
So that's bust the hole straight through the wall.
Let's make it five tons that's make it five thousand kilos to see what happens.
So there we go.
Not that much different actually it seems to be busting through the wall before doing anything else
X and suddenly at 50 that seems to have a good effect.
Then we go to the camera view here.
Let's make my 3-d windage the little bit on the bigger side so see what's going on.
And in fact in this case and on the move the camera out that's in completely the wrong place.
Any way to capture anything cool and rotate it around and we've got all of this brick work flying out
perfect that looks brilliant.
How did you guys get on.
Did you disintegrate your wall in a similar manner to me or did you come up with something more inventive.
Please share your work in the discussions over on the forum and I will see you guys in the next lecture.